src/content/log/2025/01.mdx, before:

---
layout: "@/layouts/PostLayout.astro"
title: "Data Analysis: WhatsApp Insights & Obsidian Organization"
description: "How to analyze WhatsApp chat patterns and set up an efficient Obsidian knowledge management system using Dataview."
tags:
  - data-analysis
  - obsidian
  - dataview
  - productivity
  - whatsapp
  - chat-analysis
  - diary-management
  - tools
  - templater
image: "/src/assets/log/2025-01.webp"
published: true
releaseDate: 2025-01-05
---

import { Image } from "astro:assets";
import DiaryExample from "@/assets/log/2025-01_diary_example.png";
import WeeklyExample from "@/assets/log/2025-01_weekly_example.png";
import QuarterlyExample from "@/assets/log/2025-01_quarterly_example.png";
import WhatsappExample from "@/assets/log/2025-01_whatsapp_example.png";

## Whatsapp Analyser

Since the year 2025 just started I wanted to create a tool that makes it possible for me to visualize the data from my WhatsApp chats.
Since whatsapp is the main form of communication for me, I wanted to see how my communication with others has changed over the years.
And since I saw a few tools online which did that I thought I could just do it myself and improve some stuff which I didn't like about them.
E.g. filter yearly, show emoji usage and filter popular words and stuff like that.

<Image
  src={WhatsappExample}
  alt="Example of the my Whatsapp Analyser tool"
  class={"relative hover:z-20 hover:scale-150 hover:cursor-zoom-in"}
  loading={"eager"}
/>

## Obsidian

So I wanted to have some way to quickly move through my recent diary entries, in a simple way. And there was no way to automatically navigate between the daily notes, weekly notes, and quarterly notes without installing multiple additional plugins.
Which I did not want to do, since I already have quite a few plugins installed, so I used dataview and chatgpt to figure something out that works for me.

The main idea is that I keep track of what I want to do, so I don't forget about it, and then remind myself Quarterly, Weekly and then Daily about it.
The idea is inspired/taken from this video [6 Habits to Make 2025 Your Best Year Yet](https://youtu.be/W2afI0n8pUk?si=C0F-BtqRJJWSq7Cm)

### Diary Dataview display

<Image
  src={DiaryExample}
  alt="Example of the Dataview Query for the Diary visualized"
  class={
    "rouned-lg relative hover:z-20 hover:scale-[300%] hover:cursor-zoom-in"
  }
/>

_careful this is not my recommended solution anymore, see the end of the post_

```js
// Get the current file's name and check if it's a valid date in YYYY-MM-DD format
const currentFileName = dv.current().file.name;

if (moment(currentFileName, "YYYY-MM-DD", true).isValid()) {
  const currentDate = moment(currentFileName, "YYYY-MM-DD"); // Parse the daily note's name

  // Calculate Yesterday, Tomorrow, Quarterly Note, and Weekly Note
  const yesterday = currentDate.clone().subtract(1, "day").format("YYYY-MM-DD");
  const tomorrow = currentDate.clone().add(1, "day").format("YYYY-MM-DD");
  const quarterlyNote = currentDate.clone().format("YYYY-[Q]Q"); // Format as "YYYY-QX"
  const weeklyNote = currentDate
    .clone()
    .startOf("isoWeek")
    .format("YYYY-[W]ww"); // Weekly note in "YYYY-Www"

  // Render the navigation bar
  const navigationBar = `###### << [[${yesterday}|Yesterday]] | [[${tomorrow}|Tomorrow]] >> 🗓️ [[${quarterlyNote}|Quarterly Note]] | 📆 [[${weeklyNote}|Weekly Note]]`;

  // Output the final Markdown text
  dv.el("div", navigationBar, { cls: "nav-bar" });
} else {
  dv.el("div", "This file's name is not a valid date format (YYYY-MM-DD).");
}
```

### Weekly Dataview display

<Image
  src={WeeklyExample}
  alt="Example of the Dataview Query for the Weekly Review visualized"
  class={
    "rouned-lg relative hover:z-20 hover:scale-[300%] hover:cursor-zoom-in"
  }
/>

_careful this is not my recommended solution anymore, see the end of the post_

```js
// Get the current file's name and check if it's a valid ISO week format
const currentFileName = dv.current().file.name;

if (moment(currentFileName, "YYYY-[W]ww", true).isValid()) {
  const currentWeek = moment(currentFileName, "YYYY-[W]ww"); // Parse the weekly note's name

  // Calculate Last Week, Next Week, and the Quarterly Note
  const lastWeek = currentWeek.clone().subtract(1, "week").format("YYYY-[W]ww");
  const nextWeek = currentWeek.clone().add(1, "week").format("YYYY-[W]ww");
  const quarterlyNote = currentWeek.clone().format("YYYY-[Q]Q"); // Format as "YYYY-QX"

  // Generate links for all days in the week
  const daysOfWeek = Array.from(
    { length: 7 },
    (_, i) =>
      `[[${currentWeek.clone().startOf("isoWeek").add(i, "day").format("YYYY-MM-DD")}|${currentWeek
        .clone()
        .startOf("isoWeek")
        .add(i, "day")
        .format("dd")}]]`,
  ).join(" | ");

  // Render the navigation bar
  const navigationBar = `###### ⬅️ [[${lastWeek}|Last Week]] | 🗓️ [[${quarterlyNote}|Quarterly Note]] | [[${nextWeek}|Next Week]] ➡️
${daysOfWeek}`;

  // Output the final Markdown text
  dv.el("div", navigationBar, { cls: "nav-bar" });
} else {
  dv.el("div", "This file's name is not a valid ISO week format (YYYY-Www).");
}
```

### Quarterly Dataview display

<Image
  src={QuarterlyExample}
  alt="Example of the Dataview Query for the Quarterly Review visualized"
  class={
    "rouned-lg relative hover:z-20 hover:scale-[300%] hover:cursor-zoom-in"
  }
/>

_careful this is not my recommended solution anymore, see the end of the post_

```js
// Get the current file's name and check if it's a valid ISO quarter format
const currentFileName = dv.current().file.name;

if (moment(currentFileName, "YYYY-[Q]Q", true).isValid()) {
  const currentQuarter = moment(currentFileName, "YYYY-[Q]Q"); // Parse the quarterly note's name

  // Calculate Last Quarter, Next Quarter, and the Last Year
  const lastQuarter = currentQuarter
    .clone()
    .subtract(1, "quarter")
    .format("YYYY-[Q]Q");
  const nextQuarter = currentQuarter
    .clone()
    .add(1, "quarter")
    .format("YYYY-[Q]Q");
  const lastYear = currentQuarter.clone().subtract(1, "year").format("YYYY");

  // Render the navigation bar
  const navigationBar = `###### ⬅️ [[${lastQuarter}|Last Quarter]] | 📅 [[${lastYear}|Last Year]] | [[${nextQuarter}|Next Quarter]] ➡️`;

  // Output the final Markdown text
  dv.el("div", navigationBar, { cls: "nav-bar" });
} else {
  dv.el("div", "This file's name is not a valid ISO quarter format (YYYY-QX).");
}
```

The Template can be downloaded here:

_careful this is not my recommended solution anymore, see the end of the post_

- [Diary Template](/files/90.2.6_Diary.md)
- [Weekly Template](/files/90.2.7_Weekly_Note.md)
- [Quarterly Template](/files/90.2.8_Quarterly_Note.md)

### Journals

Then I use Journals to keep track and easily view my calendar, which contains the Daily, Weekly and Quarterly template.

I do this by setting the root folder and then subdirectories

- Root folder
  - `Year {{date:YYYY}}`
    - `{{date:YYYY}}`
      - 2025-01-01.md
    - weekly
      - 2025-W01.md
    - quarterly
      - 2025-Q1.md

And using this structure which I also configured in the Journals settings, where the folders for Diary, Weekly and Quarterly are set to:

- `Year {{date:YYYY}}/{{date:YYYY}}`
- `Year {{date:YYYY}}/quarterly`
- `Year {{date:YYYY}}/weekly`

With the name template values:

- `{{date}}`
- Default value for Weekly Notes
- Default value for Quarterly Notes

## Edit: 2025-01-12

I had to change the setup of the dataview templates since it took sooo long for dataview to load, and then it would be a performance bottleneck and I didn't like that I saw the "loading" state while the graph was being built.
So the new template is using [Templater](https://silentvoid13.github.io/Templater/) with the following template

Diary/Daily note

```js
<%*
const currentFileName = tp.file.title;

if (moment(currentFileName, "YYYY-MM-DD", true).isValid()) {
  const currentDate = moment(currentFileName, "YYYY-MM-DD");

  // Calculate Yesterday, Tomorrow, Quarterly Note, and Weekly Note
  const yesterday = currentDate.clone().subtract(1, "day").format("YYYY-MM-DD");
  const tomorrow = currentDate.clone().add(1, "day").format("YYYY-MM-DD");
  const quarterlyNote = currentDate.clone().format("YYYY-[Q]Q"); // Format as "YYYY-QX"
  const weeklyNote = currentDate.clone().startOf("isoWeek").format("YYYY-[W]ww"); // Weekly note in "YYYY-Www"

  // Render the navigation bar
  const navigationBar = `###### << [[${yesterday}|Yesterday]] | [[${tomorrow}|Tomorrow]] >> 🗓️ [[${quarterlyNote}|Quarterly Note]] | 📆 [[${weeklyNote}|Weekly Note]]`;

  tR += navigationBar;
}
%>
```

Weekly Note

```js
<%*
const currentFileName = tp.file.title;

if (moment(currentFileName, "YYYY-[W]ww", true).isValid()) {
  const currentWeek = moment(currentFileName, "YYYY-[W]ww"); // Parse the weekly note's name

  // Calculate Last Week, Next Week, and the Quarterly Note
  const lastWeek = currentWeek.clone().subtract(1, "week").format("YYYY-[W]ww");
  const nextWeek = currentWeek.clone().add(1, "week").format("YYYY-[W]ww");
  const quarterlyNote = currentWeek.clone().format("YYYY-[Q]Q"); // Format as "YYYY-QX"

  // Generate links for all days in the week
  const daysOfWeek = Array.from({ length: 7 }, (_, i) =>
    `[[${currentWeek.clone().startOf("isoWeek").add(i, "day").format("YYYY-MM-DD")}|${currentWeek
      .clone()
      .startOf("isoWeek")
      .add(i, "day")
      .format("dd")}]]`
  ).join(" | ");

  // Render the navigation bar
  const navigationBar = `###### ⬅️ [[${lastWeek}|Last Week]] | 🗓️ [[${quarterlyNote}|Quarterly Note]] | [[${nextWeek}|Next Week]] ➡️
${daysOfWeek}`;

  // Output the final Markdown text
  tR += navigationBar;
}
%>
```

Quarterly

```js
<%*
const currentFileName = tp.file.title;

if (moment(currentFileName, "YYYY-[Q]Q", true).isValid()) {
  const currentQuarter = moment(currentFileName, "YYYY-[Q]Q"); // Parse the quarterly note's name

  // Calculate Last Quarter, Next Quarter, and the Last Year
  const lastQuarter = currentQuarter.clone().subtract(1, "quarter").format("YYYY-[Q]Q");
  const nextQuarter = currentQuarter.clone().add(1, "quarter").format("YYYY-[Q]Q");
  const lastYear = currentQuarter.clone().subtract(1, "year").format("YYYY");

  // Render the navigation bar
  const navigationBar = `###### ⬅️ [[${lastQuarter}|Last Quarter]] | 📅 [[${lastYear}|Last Year]] | [[${nextQuarter}|Next Quarter]] ➡️`;

  // Output the final Markdown text
  tR += navigationBar;
} else {
  tR += "This file's name is not a valid ISO quarter format (YYYY-QX).";
}
%>
```

Make sure that you don't use the default daily note template from Obsidian, as that seems to not execute the templater script, use the journal plugin instead.

Commit message:

fixed issue with the diary so that it now shows the correct content in the files

src/content/log/2025/01.mdx, after:

---
layout: "@/layouts/PostLayout.astro"
title: "Data Analysis: WhatsApp Insights & Obsidian Organization"
description: "How to analyze WhatsApp chat patterns and set up an efficient Obsidian knowledge management system using Dataview."
tags:
  - data-analysis
  - obsidian
  - dataview
  - productivity
  - whatsapp
  - chat-analysis
  - diary-management
  - tools
  - templater
image: "/src/assets/log/2025-01.webp"
published: true
releaseDate: 2025-01-05
---

import { Image } from "astro:assets";
import DiaryExample from "@/assets/log/2025-01_diary_example.png";
import WeeklyExample from "@/assets/log/2025-01_weekly_example.png";
import QuarterlyExample from "@/assets/log/2025-01_quarterly_example.png";
import WhatsappExample from "@/assets/log/2025-01_whatsapp_example.png";

## Whatsapp Analyser

Since the year 2025 just started I wanted to create a tool that makes it possible for me to visualize the data from my WhatsApp chats.
Since whatsapp is the main form of communication for me, I wanted to see how my communication with others has changed over the years.
And since I saw a few tools online which did that I thought I could just do it myself and improve some stuff which I didn't like about them.
E.g. filter yearly, show emoji usage and filter popular words and stuff like that.

<Image
  src={WhatsappExample}
  alt="Example of the my Whatsapp Analyser tool"
  class={"relative hover:z-20 hover:scale-150 hover:cursor-zoom-in"}
  loading={"eager"}
/>

## Obsidian

So I wanted to have some way to quickly move through my recent diary entries, in a simple way. And there was no way to automatically navigate between the daily notes, weekly notes, and quarterly notes without installing multiple additional plugins.
Which I did not want to do, since I already have quite a few plugins installed, so I used dataview and chatgpt to figure something out that works for me.

The main idea is that I keep track of what I want to do, so I don't forget about it, and then remind myself Quarterly, Weekly and then Daily about it.
The idea is inspired/taken from this video [6 Habits to Make 2025 Your Best Year Yet](https://youtu.be/W2afI0n8pUk?si=C0F-BtqRJJWSq7Cm)

### Diary Dataview display

<Image
  src={DiaryExample}
  alt="Example of the Dataview Query for the Diary visualized"
  class={
    "rouned-lg relative hover:z-20 hover:scale-[300%] hover:cursor-zoom-in"
  }
/>

_careful this is not my recommended solution anymore, see the end of the post_

```js
// Get the current file's name and check if it's a valid date in YYYY-MM-DD format
const currentFileName = dv.current().file.name;

if (moment(currentFileName, "YYYY-MM-DD", true).isValid()) {
  const currentDate = moment(currentFileName, "YYYY-MM-DD"); // Parse the daily note's name

  // Calculate Yesterday, Tomorrow, Quarterly Note, and Weekly Note
  const yesterday = currentDate.clone().subtract(1, "day").format("YYYY-MM-DD");
  const tomorrow = currentDate.clone().add(1, "day").format("YYYY-MM-DD");
  const quarterlyNote = currentDate.clone().format("YYYY-[Q]Q"); // Format as "YYYY-QX"
  const weeklyNote = currentDate
    .clone()
    .startOf("isoWeek")
    .format("YYYY-[W]ww"); // Weekly note in "YYYY-Www"

  // Render the navigation bar
  const navigationBar = `###### << [[${yesterday}|Yesterday]] | [[${tomorrow}|Tomorrow]] >> 🗓️ [[${quarterlyNote}|Quarterly Note]] | 📆 [[${weeklyNote}|Weekly Note]]`;

  // Output the final Markdown text
  dv.el("div", navigationBar, { cls: "nav-bar" });
} else {
  dv.el("div", "This file's name is not a valid date format (YYYY-MM-DD).");
}
```

### Weekly Dataview display

<Image
  src={WeeklyExample}
  alt="Example of the Dataview Query for the Weekly Review visualized"
  class={
    "rouned-lg relative hover:z-20 hover:scale-[300%] hover:cursor-zoom-in"
  }
/>

_careful this is not my recommended solution anymore, see the end of the post_

```js
// Get the current file's name and check if it's a valid ISO week format
const currentFileName = dv.current().file.name;

if (moment(currentFileName, "YYYY-[W]ww", true).isValid()) {
  const currentWeek = moment(currentFileName, "YYYY-[W]ww"); // Parse the weekly note's name

  // Calculate Last Week, Next Week, and the Quarterly Note
  const lastWeek = currentWeek.clone().subtract(1, "week").format("YYYY-[W]ww");
  const nextWeek = currentWeek.clone().add(1, "week").format("YYYY-[W]ww");
  const quarterlyNote = currentWeek.clone().format("YYYY-[Q]Q"); // Format as "YYYY-QX"

  // Generate links for all days in the week
  const daysOfWeek = Array.from(
    { length: 7 },
    (_, i) =>
      `[[${currentWeek.clone().startOf("isoWeek").add(i, "day").format("YYYY-MM-DD")}|${currentWeek
        .clone()
        .startOf("isoWeek")
        .add(i, "day")
        .format("dd")}]]`,
  ).join(" | ");

  // Render the navigation bar
  const navigationBar = `###### ⬅️ [[${lastWeek}|Last Week]] | 🗓️ [[${quarterlyNote}|Quarterly Note]] | [[${nextWeek}|Next Week]] ➡️
${daysOfWeek}`;

  // Output the final Markdown text
  dv.el("div", navigationBar, { cls: "nav-bar" });
} else {
  dv.el("div", "This file's name is not a valid ISO week format (YYYY-Www).");
}
```

### Quarterly Dataview display

<Image
  src={QuarterlyExample}
  alt="Example of the Dataview Query for the Quarterly Review visualized"
  class={
    "rouned-lg relative hover:z-20 hover:scale-[300%] hover:cursor-zoom-in"
  }
/>

_careful this is not my recommended solution anymore, see the end of the post_

```js
// Get the current file's name and check if it's a valid ISO quarter format
const currentFileName = dv.current().file.name;

if (moment(currentFileName, "YYYY-[Q]Q", true).isValid()) {
  const currentQuarter = moment(currentFileName, "YYYY-[Q]Q"); // Parse the quarterly note's name

  // Calculate Last Quarter, Next Quarter, and the Last Year
  const lastQuarter = currentQuarter
    .clone()
    .subtract(1, "quarter")
    .format("YYYY-[Q]Q");
  const nextQuarter = currentQuarter
    .clone()
    .add(1, "quarter")
    .format("YYYY-[Q]Q");
  const lastYear = currentQuarter.clone().subtract(1, "year").format("YYYY");

  // Render the navigation bar
  const navigationBar = `###### ⬅️ [[${lastQuarter}|Last Quarter]] | 📅 [[${lastYear}|Last Year]] | [[${nextQuarter}|Next Quarter]] ➡️`;

  // Output the final Markdown text
  dv.el("div", navigationBar, { cls: "nav-bar" });
} else {
  dv.el("div", "This file's name is not a valid ISO quarter format (YYYY-QX).");
}
```

The Template can be downloaded here:

~~_careful this is not my recommended solution anymore, see the end of the post_~~
They got updated in the last change (see [the last edit](#edit-2025-04-15))

- [Diary Template](/files/90.2.6_Diary.md)
- [Weekly Template](/files/90.2.7_Weekly_Note.md)
- [Quarterly Template](/files/90.2.8_Quarterly_Note.md)

### Journals

Then I use Journals to keep track and easily view my calendar, which contains the Daily, Weekly and Quarterly template.

I do this by setting the root folder and then subdirectories

- Root folder
  - `Year {{date:YYYY}}`
    - `{{date:YYYY}}`
      - 2025-01-01.md
    - weekly
      - 2025-W01.md
    - quarterly
      - 2025-Q1.md

And using this structure which I also configured in the Journals settings, where the folders for Diary, Weekly and Quarterly are set to:

- `Year {{date:YYYY}}/{{date:YYYY}}`
- `Year {{date:YYYY}}/quarterly`
- `Year {{date:YYYY}}/weekly`

With the name template values:

- `{{date}}`
- Default value for Weekly Notes
- Default value for Quarterly Notes

### Edit: 2025-01-12

I had to change the setup of the dataview templates since it took sooo long for dataview to load, and then it would be a performance bottleneck and I didn't like that I saw the "loading" state while the graph was being built.
So the new template is using [Templater](https://silentvoid13.github.io/Templater/) with the following template

Diary/Daily note

```js
<%*
const currentFileName = tp.file.title;

if (moment(currentFileName, "YYYY-MM-DD", true).isValid()) {
  const currentDate = moment(currentFileName, "YYYY-MM-DD");

  // Calculate Yesterday, Tomorrow, Quarterly Note, and Weekly Note
  const yesterday = currentDate.clone().subtract(1, "day").format("YYYY-MM-DD");
  const tomorrow = currentDate.clone().add(1, "day").format("YYYY-MM-DD");
  const quarterlyNote = currentDate.clone().format("YYYY-[Q]Q"); // Format as "YYYY-QX"
  const weeklyNote = currentDate.clone().startOf("isoWeek").format("YYYY-[W]ww"); // Weekly note in "YYYY-Www"

  // Render the navigation bar
  const navigationBar = `###### << [[${yesterday}|Yesterday]] | [[${tomorrow}|Tomorrow]] >> 🗓️ [[${quarterlyNote}|Quarterly Note]] | 📆 [[${weeklyNote}|Weekly Note]]`;

  tR += navigationBar;
}
%>
```

Weekly Note

```js
<%*
const currentFileName = tp.file.title;

if (moment(currentFileName, "YYYY-[W]ww", true).isValid()) {
  const currentWeek = moment(currentFileName, "YYYY-[W]ww"); // Parse the weekly note's name

  // Calculate Last Week, Next Week, and the Quarterly Note
  const lastWeek = currentWeek.clone().subtract(1, "week").format("YYYY-[W]ww");
  const nextWeek = currentWeek.clone().add(1, "week").format("YYYY-[W]ww");
  const quarterlyNote = currentWeek.clone().format("YYYY-[Q]Q"); // Format as "YYYY-QX"

  // Generate links for all days in the week
  const daysOfWeek = Array.from({ length: 7 }, (_, i) =>
    `[[${currentWeek.clone().startOf("isoWeek").add(i, "day").format("YYYY-MM-DD")}|${currentWeek
      .clone()
      .startOf("isoWeek")
      .add(i, "day")
      .format("dd")}]]`
  ).join(" | ");

  // Render the navigation bar
  const navigationBar = `###### ⬅️ [[${lastWeek}|Last Week]] | 🗓️ [[${quarterlyNote}|Quarterly Note]] | [[${nextWeek}|Next Week]] ➡️
${daysOfWeek}`;

  // Output the final Markdown text
  tR += navigationBar;
}
%>
```

Quarterly

```js
<%*
const currentFileName = tp.file.title;

if (moment(currentFileName, "YYYY-[Q]Q", true).isValid()) {
  const currentQuarter = moment(currentFileName, "YYYY-[Q]Q"); // Parse the quarterly note's name

  // Calculate Last Quarter, Next Quarter, and the Last Year
  const lastQuarter = currentQuarter.clone().subtract(1, "quarter").format("YYYY-[Q]Q");
  const nextQuarter = currentQuarter.clone().add(1, "quarter").format("YYYY-[Q]Q");
  const lastYear = currentQuarter.clone().subtract(1, "year").format("YYYY");

  // Render the navigation bar
  const navigationBar = `###### ⬅️ [[${lastQuarter}|Last Quarter]] | 📅 [[${lastYear}|Last Year]] | [[${nextQuarter}|Next Quarter]] ➡️`;

  // Output the final Markdown text
  tR += navigationBar;
} else {
  tR += "This file's name is not a valid ISO quarter format (YYYY-QX).";
}
%>
```

Make sure that you don't use the default daily note template from Obsidian, as that seems to not execute the templater script, use the journal plugin instead.

### Edit: 2025-04-15

i updated the obisidan files to reflect my current usage, which was mostly just the change inside the weekly to add a reference to the quarterly goals in addition to the last edit
